Northwest Newsmakers
A Conversation with Bob Ferguson
https://www.pbs.org/video/a-conversation-with-bob-ferguson-nzxdzi/

A couple of quick notes before we begin, there will be an audience Q&A so are you thinking of those questions at the end of the event, you can submit the question using the Q&A option at the bottom of your screen? There will also be chat available during the event, and you can also find that at the bottom of your screen. Also, before we get going, I wanted to say thank you to Waldron for sponsoring this series and share this message on their behalf.

Waldron is proud to sponsor cross cut a form for dialogue that increases knowledge, understanding and compassion, Waldron, funds and volunteers to ensure strong independent public media. It informs and inspires our community. Okay, now I would like to welcome Attorney General Bob Ferguson.

He is Washington State's 18th Attorney General, a fourth generation at Washingtonian, a big baseball fan, who I believe saw games at all of the major league stadiums good times and of course, the state's chief legal officer just re-elected to a third term Attorney General Ferguson. Thank you so much for being here today.

My Monica thanks so much for having me and it's great to see everybody. So many folks have joined in. Thanks for having me

All right, so we're gonna cover a lot of ground today. There is so much to talk about. It's been a wild year for everyone, to put it extremely mildly.

And there's a lot of changes in the air, politically, and here in Washington State, so let's get started first Gen. Ferguson. I'd love to ask you about something I know you love, which is Chess.

You're a 2 time Washington State Chess champion, and you like to apply lessons from Chess to your life and work. You once said at a university of Washington event that when you lose a Chess, it's always because you made the mistake. There's no one else to blame, and so you learn by studying your losses move by move.

Now you've done a fair bit of winning the last 4 years. You and your team won it is it 34 out of 35 lawsuits you brought a gift.

35 out of 37, not that we're counting Monica but 30.

Well, yeah, they keep coming. The ones that have been decided. So my question is, what have you learned the last 4 years and how have you learned it if not by studying your losses

Yeah, thanks to that question. Monica, it's true enough in a previous life. A long time ago I was very, very serious about Chess.

I started playing as a kid and and after I finished high school and I did not go to college right away. Actually alarm my parents at the time, I think by saying I was going to try and become a professional Chess player which I tried to do for a year and went to my parents, so It is true in Chess if you don't make any mistakes, you're not going to lose the game. That's how it stats out goes.

And so it does teach you to be very objective about your mistakes now of course you study all your games win or lose, but the losses are especially before now. Look when it comes to our litigation with the Trump administration. Look, if you told me we started 4 years ago, in that first case, that we filed against the administration on the original prolial ban that we would win 35 after 37 decisions.

Monica, I would have said that's impossible that will never happen, but the law just doesn't work that way. You know that said with both our wins and our losses, I think one thing that we do is we study each of those cases very carefully. And most of the credit really goes to my legal team who work very long hours on behalf of the people to say to Washington, I'm really proud to work, but it's a lot of thought that goes in those cases and my criteria for bringing those cases to try and avoid those losses is I only bring cases if the Retail, the administration violate the law we think washingtonians have been harmed and that I can bring the case on behalf of the people and if the answers are yes, yes, and yes, we bring them, but I think part of avoiding the loss is by being very disciplined on the front end.

Or I'm not simply chasing after policy decisions. I disagree with from this administration. There are many of those are we're really staying focused and discipline.

We think are illegal actions by the administration, and I think frankly that has helped us by staying disciplined, avoid those classes.

So, what what kind of approach have you picked up from this very busy? 4 years that he didn't have it back in 2016, yeah?

Yeah, I mean, I guess I'm not sure that the litigation against the Trump ministration. It's really altered the way we do business with our work as a whole. I mean, obviously it's very high-profile work, I get that and that people around the state of Washington have very strong views either support that litigation.

Or in opposition, is that litigation? But you have to be candid. We only bring cases whether it's a civil rights case, a consumer protection case, an antitrust case, whatever we're bringing on behalf of the company, our job is to be objective about our cases and only file cases.

We think are good cases and so what I would say, is that as time went on with that federal litigation? Monica, maybe one of the biggest surprises to me. Uh, is that it was clear from the first Muslim travel ban, which we prevailed on how sloppy the administration's work was in draft men and you would think after losing and they lost case after case after case against us.

You would think they would change how they do things that they'd be more careful in. How they drafted these executive orders, you'd think they would do that. To be honest, there were some exceptions where my team and I felt administration took some care in drafting these orders.

But honestly, for the most part, if it, uh, I sometimes would say, Hey, if you just grab some third year law, students at the university of Washington law school and had them review some of these documents they would see gaping holes in what the administration is trying to do that allowed my team to bring legal challenges and be successful, so frankly, I was pricey, administration and retain. The administration never learned from their defeats defeat after defeat after defeat often. It was the same type of claim we were ringing over and over and over again, and they kept losing, and they seemed unable or unwilling to say, and to change the way in which they adopted those policies that, to me, frankly, was the biggest surprise over all this litigation against administration.

Is that the administration never seemed to adapt to the repeated defeats, they suffered in court.

Interesting well, speaking of administrations and sort of politics writ large as you know, and we can all feel or arguably in the most politically divisive era of our lives, for many right now, be if the election is absolutely over and questioning its result, undermines our democracy and for others, the election is not over. And failing to scrutinize the apparent result is what undermines our democracy. You've dedicated your life to the law, you took steps to protect the integrity of this election, and you've said that the political independence of your office is critically important to you.

So this is kind of a 2 part question, feel free to take either one. Are you worried about and what our political climate could do to our judicial system? To that, the law that seems to be one of the featur, a few institutions that people can kind of still trust and rely on in a lot of ways.

And second, what would you tell folks on the right and left, who, for one reason or another, are worried about our democracy.

We'll try and tack when both those are those are big questions, right? Monica, I guess I would say, for those whatever side the political spectrum you're on, who are kind of worried about the state of our democracy right now, political discourse, I think you're right to be concerned, that's what I would say What I would also say is, I think it's incumbent upon all of us, whatever side, it's a political spectrum we fall on to do our part, not just to be communicating to people on our side, who share our beliefs, but to speak to everybody you know, I know as a statewide, elected official.

For example, I've ever seen everybody in the state of Washington, right? All right, that's important to me. One thing I realized and I got elected is, well, how do I make sure I get out of my office and get around and speak to people all around the state?

One thing I decided to do was as an example was go speak to every rotary club in the state of Washington, there's a couple 100 of them Monica, they're in big towns, they're in small towns, but all around the state that's where they are. Spend all the 3 of them, COVID slowed me down right then. But it is helpful for me to get out of the office and speak to people all around the state and look some folks agree with what I'm doing some disagree.

But I'm hearing their questions, I'm hearing their concerns, and we're having a Frank conversation. I'm not suggesting we're necessarily not changing anyone's minds. But I am convinced I come out that experience as a better elected official, no doubt about that.

And I hope that others realize, oh, wait a second, maybe there's a rationale for why this Ferguson guy is on that lawsuit against the President, I happen to support And so that's number one I think we all have an obligation, there. We're number 2 on the Judiciary and the politization, specifically a vegetarian.

Okay. Well thinking of the Supreme Court a lot these days, of course.

Yeah, and so you know, it's a couple of things I would say about that, I mean number one I often say, when it comes to presidential elections, arguably the most consequential power, a President has is the appointment of judges and justices to our federal bench. Look, Donald Trump had 4 years of making. Those appointments and a Republican controlled senate.

We can move those through on the lower courts and to the u Supreme Court. So I will say that I'm deeply concerned about how recent confirmations have gone, particularly from Barack Obama's last year in office when his appointment did not go through and yet Donald Trump's did in the final months of his administration So that's deeply concerning one thing I would say, though, on it, because I'm the class, half full kind of guy, maybe Monica is that you know, we file a lawsuit against the administration, I don't get to choose what federal judge I'm going to be in front of we file in A.

Court, in which there are many federal judges and that court chooses to judge, they have a system for choosing So in many cases, we have won against this administration, it have been Republican appointees, in fact, just to put a fine point to it. We recently won a case at the federal Court of Appeals, in which a 3 judge panel, they were all Trump appointees, all 3 judges were appointed by donald Trump, and we won that case 30 So I'm not suggesting that there aren't challenges with what's happened last 4 years of a large number of very conservative judges.

But what I'm saying is that in our experience in living against the administration, whether we've been in front of a Republican point of judge or a democratic appointed. Judge We've had success after success after success, so I do think that institution. A Judiciary has held the administration to account and and I think that is a positive takeaway.

That's, I'm looking forward to a Biden administration. Obviously, I'm a Democrat and look forward to that in a changing direction on the types of judges who are appointed to our federal benefit.

So one follow-up on something you said you mentioned, you know, those 3 judges that gave you that case were Republican appointees, and there's also that question, just philosophically about the Judiciary, is that even something we ought to be saying and asking, oh, this one was appointed by a Republican that one was appointed. By a Democrat, is there a possibility of getting to a situation where the American people really believe that the Judiciary is independent.

Well, I guess Christ says I used that example of saying, all 3 judges were Trump appointees to make the point. All 3 judges were Trump appointees, but they all ruled against the president's administration on a case brought by myself and other democratic attorneys. General, the first case we brought on the first Muslim travel ban was before a judge appointed by President Bush we prevailed that case, so I make that point to illustrate.

And I think for the most part, our experience before the federal bench demonstrates the independence of Judiciary. And by the way, we've had some more cases, go all the way up to the United States Supreme Court. It's about dreamers, for example, we prevailed there at the US Supreme Court, which is obviously a very conservative court.

Now, I sail that Monica being very aware look. The trajectory of this US Supreme Court, it is what it ISIS A. It is as deeply conserve a court at the Supreme Court as we've had in generations, and that will have ramifications for us as a people on a whole range of issues that everybody on this zoom, call care, a great deal.

About, and so, I'm not trying to sure coat anything here or I am saying, is that these elections have consequences. Who gets elected President, who controls the senate? Matters a great deal, especially when it comes to the Judiciary.

So bringing that back down, you know the elections, the consequences to the state of Washington Matt Larkin, your Republican opponent in this election, said, you haven't done enough to bring the lot of bear on issues of crime and public safety, and that you focus too much on that Washington and not enough on this Washington. So my question is, you know, respond to that, as you will, but also what do you say to any of the I believe it's 1 million 500000 or so washingtonians, who Who voted for Trump and who might feel like your opposition?

Your sort of visible legal opposition to the Trump administration is in opposition to them and their concerns and values.

Sure, so those are both important questions. So on the first one, in terms of during the campaign, you're right. My opponent, I've always criticized me for the litigation against the federal government.

He likes to say, I was focused on the wrong Washington, I mean, it's worth pointing out, he lost in a landslide number one, so the people who say Washington did not agree with that number 2 though. He left out something very important, which is in order for me to file a lawsuit against the administration. I literally have to prove there's a harm to Washington State Monica to the people who are environment, otherwise, a federal judge is going to kick me out of his or her courtroom on day one.

So that is a an acid test for us to even be in a courtroom. So in other words, I would say to I said during the campaign was every one of those cases mattered to our state, there's a reason why we all care about who's going to be elected President, because we all know. Intuitively, the decisions made by that President and his or her administration have profound consequences for the people in our state so as an example.

You know, half of our cases are related to the environment, and this administration's rollback, of environmental protections and regulations, which the people of this state care a great deal about, they relayed to cases like dreamers, whether the 18000 dreamers here in our state. We're working our businesses go to our schools are every bit as American as mine, son and daughter, Jack and Katie. It can stay in the only country they've ever known when am I supposed to sell those 18000 dreamers?

Hey, I'm really sorry I can't file a lawsuit to protect your legal status here. Because hmm, that might be viewed as partisan by taking on the President No, my job is to advocate 4 washingtonians, regardless of who is trying to strip away their rights? So number 2, what I would open, and I think the people of the state of Washington get that at number 2I think an important question you raise is, what do I say to those who support Donald Trump, you?

Know this goes back to By Mitch and I speak to every rotary club in the state, this comes up a lot. Why do you file stomach lawsuits against the President? So I guess a couple things I say to that is and I said this at the outset, I understand those the lawsuits in particular are people have strong music on that, I hear him.

I hear the letters and emails in my office, I get that I think what I would say is a couple things is one judge me in my office by our results. We won over 95% of our cases, and what I try to do is turn the question around, wait a second, why isn't the question? Why can't this administration determination do a better job of following the law?

Right, that is their jump right? My job is to make sure they're they're on lava, why can't they do a better job? After 35 defeats to get it right when they wrote these executive orders, you know, that's number one and number 2, what I would say to them is it's about this work.

We do instead of government It's obviously high-profile. It is a fraction of the work that we do in Iran's we have more than 600 attorneys 500 professional staff. You know, the work of my team is fantastic and impacts people in many ways.

So whenever I speak at those rotary clubs, I don't lead with the Trump litigation. I'll talk, for example, on litigation we have Against opioid distributors and their illegal conduct that is fueled an epidemic in our state that has led to thousands of deaths destroyed communities, torn apart families. I mean, the ramifications are profound.

We are set to go to trial against a fortune, 15 companies here in a handful of months right here in Washington State. Those are issues that speak. It's 12 Washington's, I don't care if they're Republicans or Democrats, Trump supporters, Biden supporters doesn't matter, but that epidemic impacts all of us.

And so I just try to remind them of the work that we do day in and Day Out that they may not necessarily know about, but that's work. We do on behalf of all Washington.

And you mentioned one of I know you've said it in the past, the priorities of the next 4 years for you will be the opioid epidemic and going after some distributors. Another priority you've mentioned is about the pandemic part of your job is to defend state law, and that includes the restrictions and proclamations that governor Jay enslie may make to You know, try to shepherd us through this crisis, you've defended, I think you've said around 20, is that right? Challenges, in fact that all successfully now, of course, cases, are spiking big time again, instantly put out a new set of restrictions, and I mean, how how to how to express right, how all washingtonings are feeling strained.

Struggling exhausted My kids can't go to school, I know you've said that your family can't go to church. Um, some families can't work, can't breathe, can't pay the bills so so other than defending the governor's policies. What is your office doing to help?

Yeah, so first I'm glad you when you asked the question. I'm glad you framed it with what everybody's going through right and um, and and you know some folks are suffering a lot of a loved one, the loss of their business tremendous economic hardship, you know, it's the impacts are are profound and so What I would say is part of our job is to defend the governor's emergency proclamations, and we have successfully defended those so that's why they're still in place, in terms of what else we do a key part of what we do, in fact, now, with this resurgence, right?

I would encourage folks who are watching us to reach out to our office if they see examples, for example of price gouging. We have AA program here. See it, snap it, send it if you see price gouging, snap a picture, send it to my team.

We have sent dozens and dozens of cease and desist letters to businesses that were engaged in increasing their prices exponentially for toilet paper, right? For example, hand sanitizer, basic products that folks need, and so we've done work like that on the consumer side. To make sure that all businesses are playing by the rules and not exploiting the pandemic, take advantage of consumers at a time.

As you well said, Monica, in which people are under a tremendous amount of stress and economic stress as well. So that's a key rule of our office that we have on behalf of the people is making sure everybody's playing by the rules. And frankly, we encourage folks to reach out to us, if they see any challenges in their life along those lines that mighty know we have brought lawsuits.

We've recovered dollars, for example, if okay

For an example, I'd love to hear how one of those went, just so people know what this looks like.

Yeah, so just as an example, one of the governor's proclamations is you cannot be evicted from your housing for an inability to pay the rent. There is a large out-of-state corporation property management company that literally was threatening people with eviction, even though they knew about the governor's proclamation, they were threatening eviction to folks, it was outrageous conduct. We brought a lawsuit as a result, they've had to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars, those dollars right back to those people who were impacted by this truly outrageous conduct, and that came from consumers, renters, reaching out to us with their complaints so that's what we do on behalf of all washingtonians, to make sure that The laws followed, and we have a large team that does that work.

So, we've talked about some of those priorities I want to come at that from another direction that brings us a little bit back to the national stage, you've said your mission, as our chief legal officer is protecting the people of Washington, against powerful interests who don't play by the roles. And you've made absolutely no secret over the years of how well you think. Trump and the administration can play by the roles, not well, your office has filed 82.

Has there been another 182 lessons administration so far, and you filed suit so fast against some of its most controversial the policies within 72 hours. I believe for that initial Muslim travel ban back in 2017 You started to become a bit of a household name outside Washington time, named you. One of the 100 most influential people of 2017 NPR said that you you play David to Trump's Goliath so talk to us about how will the work of your office change a big ways, small ways whatever comes to.

Mind under a Biden administration, and then just It's making it a bit personal, who is David after Goliath?

I guess a couple of things so first on a Time Magazine, a 100 most influential people in the world, think, by the way, I'm from a family of 7 Monica, there's 6 boys, one long-suffering sister, my family of 7, and so my oldest brother called me when the news came out that I received. That award and he said, Bob, it's quite a promotion for you to be name 100 most influential people in the world, because you're not even the most influential person in our family so that that's what a Big Brother says to you after you after you get an award like that, you know.

Number 2. It was several months ago, Monica, I sat down with my leadership in my office talk about, Hey, what's gonna happen for the next 4 years, if I'm still Attorney General, I get re-elected, depending on the outcome of the presidential race to your point, right? In other words, if Donald Trump is re-elected How do we continue this work?

How do we maintain the resources court? You know, people are working long hours here? How do we maintain that work the trajectory that work we have a conversation about that.

We also began a conversation of well if Joe Biden is elected President, that frees up, hopefully some resources for us. 2 some of the other work we do taken on powerful interests Now Playing by the rules. The good news is that there's no shortage of work for us to do I mention that opioids litigation, look, if you sue 3 fortune, 15 companies for a case like this, that case is as massive consequences for those for those corporations, the amount of dollars we're talking about here the harm to our state that they That is AA heavy heavy lift to bring a case like that to trial.

And so we have lots of folks with a lot of expertise who can help with that case, as just one single example of the work that we do on behalf of Washingtonian, so it's really not that much of a challenge for us to find that work to do I often say, with my consumer protection chief, you know, we receive about 20000 consumer complaints a year. She has told me in the past. We could literally double the size of my consumer protection team, and they'd all still be busy just to be clear.

So right now, I believe that you started out with something like 10 attorneys on that team, and now it's 30, maybe more, why has that been something that you've bumped up?

It's a good question. I guess so the pay that is true, right? When I started, we had about 10 attorneys who else have professional staff to do this work as well.

Of course, and I've increased it dramatically. The reason there's a lot of there's a long answer to the short answer, I guess, Monica, for the sake of time, is that. Before I became Attorney General before I got into politics, I worked at a law firm, uh, take moulcano gates, pressing gates now is an excellent lot from here and so I did work on behalf of businesses and corporations.

That was the work that we did. Those were many of our clients and I saw the resources that those entities have If there's a loss and filed against them and more power to them, they're entitled to that right and uh but I realized when I came in as Attorney General that if you literally have 10 attorneys, the 20000 consumer complaints you're receiving, look, you do not have the ability Take an entity like Comcast if they're breaking the law app to trial, you just don't have the resources to do them as a result, whenever you settle a case, you will never settle for the amount you really should get because they know you can't go to trial they know you.

Can't take them to trial. They know at the end of the day you've got to settle, and that's not right from my standpoint. We're the people's law firm, and so I said about growing that team.

And creating a civil rights team, by the way, we've almost tripled our antitrust team as well. Our complex litigation team is much larger. Also, we can take Comcast, a trial which we did by the way, and won and got $10 million penalty against money going back to washingtonings, as well?

So we can bring these kinds of cases against these powerful interests when they don't play by the rules these old distributors, but that takes resources, frankly, a lot of resources now, frankly, we've done that, I've not asked the legislature for more money to do it. So the folks watching this this conversation, your tax dollars are not paying for that consumer protection team. We get a recovery, we make washingtonians, whole if they've been harmed by that and then I reinvest funds back into growing the team and that brings more cases, more large resolutions, more money for the state for consumers.

And by the way, Monica, I still send millions of dollars to the state of Washington. As a result of the cases that we bring and so it's been truly a win-win situationfourconsumers and the state's bottom line by growing those teams and guess what those corporations now know if we file a lawsuit, we have the ability 2 take them 2 trial and 2 beat them at trial as. Well

We're gonna jump off that in a minute, I want to remind everybody. We have about 5 minutes to Q&A so if you haven't gotten questions in, please think about those and do that now we are running tight on time and I want to make sure we get to those questions but I'd like to ask you to give us your take Gen. Ferguson, maybe a little faster through a bunch of issues because we could go on all day.

And there's just so much going on a bunch of issues that I'll bring up so. One, the affordable care act, Washington is 1 of the states arguing in defense of the law. Last week.

For very interesting reasons, about 825000 washingtonians are beneficiaries of part of the law, what's your take on on where that defense is right now?

Yeah, short answer is I feel confident we're going to prevail at the US Supreme Court. So again, we are defending Washington State is defending the forbal care act, frankly, because when there's a lawsuit filed by Republican attorneys general, the Trump administration's Department of Justice would not defend the federal law, which is kind of their job. So we stepped in and asked the court we could intervene in the case become a party of the case and defendant which we have all the way to the year Supreme Court.

We just had that oral argument. I guess it was last week Monica and losing track of time You don't want to read too much into oral arguments obviously, but it's fair to say that questions and comments by justice Kavanaugh and justice Roberts, in particular, we felt were very, very positive in addition to the fact that we think we have a stronger argument here as well. So if you', if you're looking for a short answer, what I would say is Obviously, we're concerned about the future of the affordable care act, but we felt that this democratic mpags, the states defending the affordable care act, we did a very good job defending it, and we feel the court understood our arguments, and we feel optimistic look at the affordable care act, will remain essentially intact when the court renders their decision.

Okay, and then tech regulation, this is related, very much to consumer protection. You've got that very robust team at your office. Big tech right now is under a lot of scrutiny, we've got Amazon, Microsoft and others right here, anything coming up in that arena.

Yeah, I mean, there is of course, a Department of Justice and states. It's been announced. There's a huge investigation into big tech, typically Monica, we don't say, whether we're a part of an investigation or not, that's our policies in office, not to talk about it as investigations, it has become public, not for us, others have sort of made it public that we are a part of of.

As some of those investigations, I can't go into sort of details about that, that we just have a policy, have not talked about investigations until right? We're ready to file a lawsuit. What I would just say at a high level is that people's privacy is critically important, especially COVID, we are all online, a heck of a lot more than we ever have been before.

All these issues come together and come to head with big tech, and we have laws in place that they prevent monopolies, all right, and um, and when I mentioned earlier, have grown my antitrust team from 4 attorneys to 10 Harvard is so we can participate in investigations like the ones that folks have been reading. About so, we can make sure that entities are following the law, and so have to come back when that investigation is complete and if any legal action comes out of it become. Because it is such a big topic, but, frankly, that's why we now have I think the second largest antitrust state ags team in the country.

People of antitrust as a federal Department of Justice issue, which it traditionally has been. It's my view that states, just like consumer protection, just like civil rights should have its own enforcement mechanisms. We've gone from really being a small player in that field.

It's being one of the largest from the state's perspective.

So a couple more and and we'll try to go through these quick daca, a judge ruled that Chad Wolfe, the homeland security chief, didn't actually have the standing to enforce new restrictions against asylum seekers. What's next for daca recipients, here in the state. Anything else you want to tell them

Sure, so the good news is we've beat the Trump administration on the daca, the dreamers issue now twice first all the way through Supreme Court. The Trump administration seems not to have got the message from the Supreme Court. They went back to try and end around to really limit the program as you mentioned, we just won again in terms of what's next for the short-term.

That's up to the Trump administration. Will they appeal this decision once again? If they do Monica, they're just gonna lose again.

I just think that's where this is headed. And when the new administration comes in Joe Biden's made it very clear that he supports the daca program. He obviously was the Vice President to Barack Obama when it was put in place, so the good news here is, I think these endless attacks against dreamers, which are pointless in so many ways and frankly.

I mean, I mean, you know, they serve in our hospitals. They, I mean, these are folks who are just part of our fabric of our society, the idea that we'd want to, I'll send them back to a country they don't even know is outrageous to me. So I'm confident now that dreamers will remain protected through these legal filings.

But then, once the new administration comes in, we won't have to worry quite so much and hopefully Congress can take action. It's really putting protections on a pathway to citizenship for all those dreams.

So last up real quick, there is obviously and and rightfully, so a lot of conversation about how we should apply the law when people die at the hands of our police. Emmanuel Ellis, a black man in tacomb, died in police custody in March and last week, the Washington State patrol sent its investigation to your team and you will be making a decision on whether there should be criminal charges against these police officers. I know you can't comment on active cases.

I'm curious if you could walk us through How you, how you might determine what criteria do you think? A journey's general attorneys general should consider in these kinds of decisions.

Sure, I mean, we have a wall lays out, essentially the criteria. So I guess what I would say is that we have a team in our office who are extremely professional. And we do these kinds of things this is local, what we do.

It's a little bit unusual for us to have a case like this, typically a local prosecutor It handles these cases. Um, but the local proster had a conflict, and that's why it ended up in my office. And so, we just received a file, as you mentioned, you're right?

I can't speak about it for obvious reasons. But I guess the one thing I would say for your viewers is you, this would be the type of key set. I would be personally involved in right.

I've been getting regular briefings about this issue from the very beginning as if it's going through the investigator process. I mute with my team on a regular basis about it so, look, we have thousands and thousands of litigation matters going on our office at any particular time, as you might imagine, we have a huge team. Only handful of those are ones that I am personally reviewing, as you might imagine, but this obviously falls in that category.

So, but my team understands this is an especially important matter. The community to the family to everybody involved is an especially important issue. And I think if you were listening to the conversations I have with my team, I think, once takeaway would be No, those the people in the ag's office take that extremely seriously.

And they're bringing a very thoughtful approach to it, and that's my job is to ultimately make a decision. I understand whatever decision I make Monica is going to please some people and make some people very unhappy. That's the nature of the job and I can't worry about that.

What I need to focus on who's doing right by the law And making sure we make a thoughtful decision and then do a good job. Explain that decision hi to the people.

So we're going to turn it over to our audience questions. And on the way, I want to ask you a question that a local name Mary sent in, that's a very frequently asked question, frankly about you and your career, you might kind of guess what it might be the way she framed it was. Will you eventually be our governor are you thinking about that?

And are you perhaps looking at the possibility of a role in the Biden administration?

I would not look for a role in the Biden administration. That's not on my radar, I can assure you that I'm AI think you mentioned the beginning Monica. I think you said, I'm a fourth generation washingtony and my kids are 5th Generation.

I love it here in Washington, despite the it's seemingly Emma's reign the last several days no, I'm a, I'm a walk, continue all the way through. I love it here. We've got young kids, I'm not going anywhere and look in terms of governor.

You know, I get asked that question all the time, by the nickel, for every time, I got asked, I could pay for my kids' future college education, but i', I guess I'm just someone who you know, just focus on what's right in front of me and and believe me that keeps me plenty. Busy, and so I, uh, you know, we have a great governor and I'm hopeful governor inslee serves another full term as governor and look forward to work with him and just don't really think much beyond that.

All right, thank you. Okay. Well, let's turn it to our audience thanks everyone who has been submitting questions.

There's obviously like we said a lot of ground to cover and we could talk for quite a bit longer. I think than the time we have so one popular question was, how can Washington State protect public land and water from environmental pollution and damage with the weakening of with Trump's weakening of some environmental protections, and that was submitted by Vivian.

Oh, man isn't doubby Vivian. Is that right to say, Vivia, David? The thing is a critter I'm so glad you asked that question Vivian, because earlier, I think Monica asked me to give a short answer, so I didn't kind of go into a bit more detail?

So you read my mind, because, you know the Trump administration, a 1/2 of our cases. I think I mentioned against administration have been relayed to the environment. Hey, we've won, essentially, with all of them.

So the Trump ministration got tired of losing to us by using existing federal laws to defeat them in court, and what they literally did. I think it's our one thing that's especially concerning, is there's a law that's called nepa, the national environmental protection app scoop Jackson, Washington, us, senator conceived of it and got through Congress and was signed by President Nixon, I believe. It is referred to as sort of the Magna Carta of environmental law.

So I'm going to too much details, but it's such an important law for protecting our environment. And we use that law over and over to defeat the Trump administration. Well, guess what, if, in the Trump administration finally said, let's just gut that meep along We're losing because of it.

Let's just let's just water it down so literally the state of California and Washington were co, leading a lawsuit challenging that decision by the Trump administration. So not only does this administration, it, frankly, try to allow for oil drilling in the Arctic national wildlife refuge, we're challenging that rollback, protections, and their endangered species act were challenging that, but now they've even gone to sort of the fundamental Basic environmental laws that protect armor and provide for a level playing field, we can bring these cases to court, and they're trying to get that now as well.

So I would really sort of put an! On that particular issue. And so my role is what I see right now is to make sure that when the administration does roll back environmental protections, or try to alter in a fundamental way these critical laws that protect our environment.

We're there to stand up to that, and I'm proud that we've done an extremely good job. We have a team that does excellent work on that, and we'll continue to do that point forward, but keep on that case, the national environmental protection act huge case with huge consequences, long-term.

So our next question is from Joe and I'm just gonna quote it AG Bob Ferguson. Thank you for suing Tim Iman says, Jo, do you think this will temper? I'm and's antics, so if you wouldn't mind catching up um, those of our viewers who are not familiar.

Sure, so I think that question. So this is a case that's actually going on right now, we're in trial, literally, as we speak, and this is against Tim Lyman and it's a complicated case, but what is it's a campaign finance case, in other words, if I receive political donations, I have to disclose. Who's donating?

This is a case where for initiatives that Tim myman was involved and I'm going to oversimplify here that he did not follow the rules set out under state law to disclose donations, and also he received kickbacks that people thought they're donating money, just or initiative, and really that money. Ended up going to Tim Iman for his personal First, personal affairs, and that's not okay. So the cases have been going on for some time were literally in trial.

Now, the court has already issued some important rulings that have gone our favor and we expect to prevail in this case and it's just my hope that at some point you know, Mr. Ryman understands that he needs to follow Washington State law. He's violated law in the past as you know he's admitted to that in the past, courts have told me he can no longer be a treasurer in the past, that didn't seem to get the job done.

That's why we're back in court again, so I just will say, at a high level is We bring these cases against any one flying along. I filed those cases against democratic county party organizations, Democrat elected officials. It doesn't matter whether you're on the left or on the right.

You've got to follow those rules and we'll bring legal action if we have to to make sure that people do that

Okay, and this next question submitted anonymously, do you think the federal judicial appointments of the last 4 years will have a significant effect on washingtonians, coming up? And if so, how

Short answer is yes, and we talked a bit about this earlier, Monica, right? According to these appointments. And it's worth highlighting, I think, maybe there's a lot of reasons I could give for a wild impact of washingtones, but let me just give at least one example, and that is we all quite reasonably and understandably focus on the US Supreme Court.

And I'm not believe me as a lawyer. I'm not minimizing how important that court is, but it's worth remembering 99% of all federal cases never make it to the a Supreme Court. The u Supreme Court only decides a very small fraction of all the cases are determined in federal court.

So it's those judges who you've never heard of would have been getting appointed over the last 4 years by this President and affirmed by the Congress by the senate that for the most part, will be the ultimate decision maker on choices related to civil rights, reproductive rights, the civil liberties you name it. And those are the individuals, those are the judges that almost always actually have the final word. And so um eye definition, a point of judges has profound impact on all Americans, including washingtonings, because judges make decisions that have on our personal lives as you all know.

And so Yes, it'd be hard to overstate how important those appointments are. Um, I'm thankful that. I mean, just speaking from my political perspective, I'm thankful we're going to have a new President, where the types of judges who are being appointed will change and uh, but yes, the impact of the Judiciary, the role Judiciary is profound.

Basically, everything That we care about in society, whatever side of the aisle, you fall on basically ends up getting litigated. We just talked earlier on about the affordable care act, right? Whereas, in that back in the courts, judges determined the future of the affordable care act a decade after Congress acted, right?

We're still in the courts on that, and so these cases are profound and it's judges, it's people who decide them, and so yes, they have a huge impact.

You you mentioned? I want to follow-up on that that you're confident about the outcome of certain, you know, issues, daca, the affordable character, at least currently considering what we just talked about with the federal judicial appointments being what they are, which, what is the issue you are least confident about coming up.

I'm not sure if II mean, there are look, there are cases we have where I have like the less comments I try not to to talk about that too much, maybe for obvious reasons, Hanukkah, right?

We didn't want to talk about the general issue writ large

Yeah, I mean, I would say, when it comes to issues related to reproductive health and repractive freedoms to look at looking long-term right, just looking at long-term, not that there's an immediate case, necessarily right. But looking long-term what the makeup of this Supreme Court. Yes, I'm concerned about that.

I think folks touched early on issues related to environmental regulations, right and what I would say, dark money, the influence of dark money in politics, citizens united, you know, I don't see that changing anytime soon. Despite the outsized influence of dark money in our politics, the list could go on and on and on so. At a high level, we're not asking about any of our cases, specifically at a high level.

And this would belong for Aries that I have concerns about, and uh, uh, but that said, we've had tremendous success in the courts and one thing. I just will add, because again, I'm a glass half full kind of guy is No, we have won these cases against administration over and over again and in large parts, because the present you can't tweet your way out of a prom before a federal judge that doesn't work right? All a federal judge cares about, I don't care if they're right-leaning or left-leaning or right down the middle, they care about the facts of your case.

They care about federal law. And they care about the Constitution that's what they care about, they may have views on those things, but that's what they're focused on. And so I think one reason we've been so successful is because Donald Trump, the way he acts the way he operates.

It is the least effective way to operate when you're before federal judge, and I think actually hurts him and hurts the administration. And as a result, the administration has lost credibility with federal judges of whatever leanings, they have They have lost a certain trust with the federal Judiciary, and I think that is part of the reason why they keep losing a court.

So I'll do probably. This is our last question. We're almost up at time, thank you again for joining us.

This has been really interesting and eliminating. Do you see any realistic path for the President to overturn the Biden Harris election win what are your biggest concerns? I think what I think your reaction there kind of says a lot.

What are your biggest concerns and greatest opportunities with the upcoming Biden administration, I know we covered some ground, so feel free to focus on the piece that you'd like.

It's always so every lawyer knows the last question is always a trickiest question, because that's true here as well, so I will focus on the first one I think we focus on the second part a little bit so in the time we have. Well you know, it's difficult to answer what I would say is I just before I came on to this call, I was on a call with democratic attorneys general across the country. Talking about that question, right?

I guess a couple of thoughts, Monica, I would have is I take what the President is doing extremely seriously, I'll just start with them. I find it unpatriotic, what he's doing, and I don't mean by not conceding, okay, he's not conceding, not clovering the transition when we're in the middle of a pandemic. Um, that's not fine, that to me, is unpatriotic?

And so when it comes to legal challenges, what I would say, it's a little bit tricky without saying is, do I think they have much in the way of legal merit. No and courts have been consistent in approaching it that way, it's also the result of a lot of hard work. With my colleagues around the country and folks in my office, we've been preparing for this election for months in my office, we have drafted complaints, we've drafted motions, preparing for all sorts of contingencies, we're mostly with the ags in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin Michigan.

Putting a national function against the postal service, right?

That's exactly right. We will let the lawsuit against the postal service for those outrageous service changes they made. And we filed a lawsuit here in Washington State and the ags of Michigan and Wisconsin Nevada joined us, we actually were there with the coalition of states and were the first state to get a national injunction To require the postal service to go back to the way they ran things before which we think had a profound impact on the election in states, like Wisconsin, Michigan, by the way, so so we're very involved.

I guess what I would say is I do not for 1 minute, underestimate Donald Trump, his desperation to hold on to power. Is going to virtually anything to tear down our institutions in his efforts to hold on to power, and so I just can't_how seriously how I take that my colleagues around the country taken, how much, how seriously my team takes it, that said I do not think he'll be successful in doing that, he. May do a lot of damage on his way out the door if I believe that he does happening every single day but at the end of the day.

I do believe come January, you will walk out of the oval office and Joe Biden will walk into the oval office and that will happen. But now we are I guess I just would want to say to those who are concerned about that. Is, you know, there's a lot of people in my office, working really hard on that, and working with other states to make sure that actually happens in other words, that the will, the voters is upheld and that's how our democracy works and works.

And so we don't take any for granted, but I will say from a legal perspective, these challenges are, they're really they're not strong. And so we are confidable prevail.

Well, thank you so much Gen. Ferguson. We are out of time.

Thank you so much for joining us today

I said thanks. Thank you, Monica, thanks to Aldi for joining us. We're great to hear all your questions, I hope you're all staying healthy during this really challenging time, Thanksgiving luck.

And before we sign off, I want to give another thanks to our series sponsor waltren and to all of you for joining us, you can learn more about upcoming crossquid events at crosscott.com/events,includingournextinstallmentofnorthwestnewsmakersondecember16th. And that's going to be with the university of Washington, doctor and NBC news contributor Dr. Vin Gupta and we'll talk about the Coronavirus around the country, the situation, the progress toward a vaccine, lots of recent developments on that between now and then I will become quite the COVID nerd in preparation for all of that, I know we've all become in some ways, COVID nerds.

So even more so, so stay tuned for that. Thank you again. Attorney General Ferguson thanks everyone and have a great day 