Episode 36 - Dave Reichert for Governor
570 views  Sep 21, 2024.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q3NItqUBZak

Letyn Dave Reichert, he is a man that's on a mission. Not only to protect everyone's public safety, but I think to protect this entire state from a complete decimation. If Bob Ferguson gets into office, so I always get weirded out when I uh, introduce people such as yourself.

Do I refer to you as a Congressman or is it Dave? Is it sheriff Helping which one?

What is a met chicken? Guess, just just Dave. I mean, David is titles don't mean that much.

All right, thoughts well. I hope you get the next title as governor of state washing.

Now let's take the title, but we're going to make it, you know, the heart of a servant approach to the state government death.

Yeah, well, I applaud you for your service saying 33 years in the sheriff's office to me. It's compelling for you've been a true leader when it comes to the public safety narrative and protecting not just people in King County, but I think you've been figure in my career as somebody to look up to. That can ascend to different heights to fulfill your service, and you certainly have done that when you served this entire nation as a representative in Congress.

Thank you for that a long time you did that and it's, I think it's difficult in Washington State that's been so heavily leaned. Blue for a very long time, to maybe guide your way as a Republican, so you want to just walk through me like, what walks through the audience? How did you find it successful to navigate the Republican waters because we're so entrenched in blue policy in the state.

Yeah, you know, the first question really is, how does you know, how does a cop really get involved in politics? And uh, you know, I know there have been some sheriff's office members and I know Seattle PD members that have kind of wandered into those waters a little bit and they're a little rough, um, I came into it totally accidentally. I was a precinct commander up in canmore, so my rank was major at the time and II just come back from my second back surgery out a car crash in 1990 on duty.

Yeah, 60 mile an hour guy hit me in my patrol car. I was a sergeant, I headed over to a white center bearing precinct, and yeah, so I had my first back surgery in 90, and then in 96 as a precinct commander, my right foot just went paralyzed, so they They took me in. Did the surgery and doc says I'm not sure you're going to get the use of your foot back so you might want to start looking for a new job.

So I went home from surgery, trying to work the toes and the, you know the fun and uh

Um

I was looking through the wanads for jobs, and unfortunately, I was blessed and my foot began to work again, and my right leg below my knee is pretty screwed up nerve wise, so it's you know, it's a little numb and dull and achy sometimes but went back to work in March of 1997, after the people in Washington and Kent County decided they wanted to have an elected sheriff after 30 years, so Oh I went back 2 weeks later, I was called and and told by chief Larry mays in the sheriff's office. That Sims wanted to interview me for the job of Sharon Sims.

Yep, and that Montgomery at the time, sherf Montgomery left and went to Bellevue pd, so I thought this must be a joke. You know, but on Saturday, in early March, I get a phone call. You're going to have an interview with Ron Sims on Monday, so I go in an interview on Tuesday night, he comes to Kenmore.

His dinner offers me the job of sheriff, I said, okay, and he said, well, you've got to run so it doesn't get official, you have to run, yeah. I don't want to just appoint you in, and I said, I'll do that. And then he turned around before he left and he says, are you Democrat or Republican?

And I said yes.

A smart answer for somebody a king.

Yeah, it was just a lucky, you know, answer, I think you know, cops just have a sort of an instinct you know and and I wanted to throw a little humor into the event so on the very next morning, I was born on a Wednesday morning, you know, 3 days later and 2 weeks after coming back to work. I was the sheriff of King County, and then I was running that a campaign, so To get elected to get elected, but you know, a lot of people think they look at a person they go oh yeah, he's been working at this trying to get this, you know and yeah.

Amazing angler, yeah, yeah, 2 totall.

The total politician I got this thing and you know he's been working this angle and stepping on people and this is a total, this was a total God thing came out of the blue, I didn't expected ran for sheriff, one, ended up, 2 terms as a sheriff I was asked and and in 2000 to run for governor. 2004 to run for governor in 2000I said no, we gotta stay and solve Green River, which we did and great with great help from Seattle pd. By the way, and the Washington State patrol and all kinds of volunteers in the medical examiner's office.

You know, we just had a great team of people all those years that and um 2004, Jennifer Dunn retires and she he's very persistent. So she came after me and said I'm retiring, I want you to do this. You know, you've got name ID and all the things that so finally I said yes, and this is the funny part, so II think you know, as cops you're you're naturally in the middle because you make decisions based on facts.

Ugh, cops don't go to an accident. Look at a blue car and say, uh, well, you're not at fault because your car is blue with a red one. I'm taking that guy to jail.

No, you ask the witnesses, you gather evidence, you know, and you make your decisions.

You should have to stay in personal.

Exactly. And that's what people in today's world forget about police officers, it doesn't matter. And I know I've heard you say this too.

You know, people aren't asking when they call the police is a Democrat cop coming or is a Republican cop coming well. No, the police officers come in, who cares who will put his or her life on the line for you Uh, when you need it, it doesn't matter what color you are, it doesn't matter what your religion is doesn't matter what your party affiliation is, the police officer will be there to help you. So that's how I anyway, I finally said yes to Jennifer Dunn, and that's how.

I ended up in Congress the first year's a tough raise with 7 people in the race, but every year after that, you know, can't count it was what

Well, so I wouldn't say easier to sorry about that.

Yeah, yeah, yeah, it wasn't easier. It was different, but it was, you know, you're you're running, you're running as AA conservative thinker, uh, in-and-in a place that doesn't fully appreciate that all the time.

Alright, yeah, especially now okay, it just seems obviously hyperpartisan. Yeah, but that's your point about cops, I love, I love the way you put it. Um, we have to be in the middle.

Behalf

And your fact, based, but I find it interesting that in the media landscape and certainly you're in the media landscape now, as you're running for the Washington State governor I think the media tries to paint the cops has these right-wing lunatics to divide us divide us from the community's reserve yes. And I think that's number one I think it's nefarious. I don't think it's accurate.

Um, and I push back on it all the time and I just find the media bias pretty pretty thick and I think it does a disservice for our community. And I think it's led to this division. You can see that plane itself out anything in the governor's race, but you know I try to not really highlight.

The problems with meetings I think it's well documented. Yeah, but I think for your purpose, I really love the way you're handling your message on public safety. So if you wouldn't mind taking a few minutes, what separates you from Bob Ferguson?

Who's the current Attorney General, the aspect of public safety minutes. I mean, we could have a long discussion on this, but for me, foremost Cops just don't trust Bob person. Yeah, maybe because he's targeted police officers for 4 political purposes for political gain, and to me that's egregious, well.

I think you know that's one observation of his behavior and I think it's accurate, but II think that if you look at him in totality, you don't see honesty and integrity and you can look it, you know you can look at him and outside the scope of law enforcement and C. Dishonest behavior so when you talk about I'm, I'm just gonna point out a few things when you talk about the gas tax. Oh, he was with insuley saying it was going to be pennies.

I was dishonest when you talk about the the latest thing with the lawsuit that was filed regarding the gathering of the initiatives. He kept that to himself and didn't sure that with the people that were actually you know responsible for moving those initiatives forward, and he had an excuse for that. He has he has been deceptive his entire career.

I don't think most people knew knew until a debate the other day that we that he has hired 400 additional attorneys since his tenure M, the Attorney General's office. So when he started Mike, he had 400 lawyers, he now has 800 lawyers working for him. So I pointed out in the debate, so you can hire 800 Attorneys, and we've lost thousands of cops here in Washington State, you haven't hired, you're not iron cops, but you're hiring lawyers is hiring?

The litigators

Right yeah, to to I tend to take cops to corps. I think to a sue, uh, whomever you can and and mostly suing Donald Trump, obviously, in the debate, he some people counted the number of times that he mentioned donald Trump's name, I think it was over 60 times that he mentioned his name, right?

Well, he's desperate to paint you in that in that in that category, and that yeah, that is just pure politics and deflection, yeah.

So I think you can look at him and look at and I won't go through the entire list with him might do that on Wednesday night, but if you just look at the things that he's done over his career, it's all been devious and and and the commercials that are out. Regarding my positions on just about everything are all untrue, we've sent Attorneys have sent letters to the news media, asking them to cease to desist, and they they're not going to do that, you know, the the thing that I really focus on our our core values in in the government we've had in Washington State, we have not had a government that's serving.

Us, we've been serving Government and cops know about service. And so I talk a lot about serving and cops understand the heart of a servant and the heart of a servant to me is, I'll just give you an example when I was the sheriff, I think it might have been my second campaign. I didn't have to do this.

I was invited to do it and so I did it so went up on Broadway and I met with a group, I'm gonna guess maybe 20 representatives from the gay lesbian community and and and I knew it was gonna be a tough interview and they knew it was going to be maybe contentious and so they started out. The leader said, look, we know, we're not going to agree on everything, but we're going to treat each other with respect. So I showed up to the interview.

It was my daughter's birthday, but I that I came anyway, I went through the interview. We got halfway around the table and somebody I don't even remember the question But I responded in a way that it was not an agreement, you know, in the position that they were taking, so they got angry, and uh, moderate moderator said that's enough, okay, we're gonna move on to the next person and you know the Thing they tell you in politics and and I learned that as a cop as if he got somebody kind of calmed down and you're out of you know, you move on, but I for some reason I couldn't do it.

And so I asked the moderator I said, could I just go back to this lady just for a second. And so I looked at her and and I felt like I was talking for all cops when I said this. So I looked at her and I said you know you and I don't agree on this when this meeting is over and we all get up and walk out of this room and we're out.

On the street, if any one of your lives Is threatened or endangered? I would sacrifice my life for you.

That's a powerful statement, because I can see that you mean it.

Yep, that's real, it's real, I think every cop feels that way.

That's when you, you know, you put your hand up for the oath of service. That's it, yeah.

And you could hear pin drop in that room, but that story to me really encapsulates. The heart of a servant, uh, when you talk about military and cops and firefighters too, they all put their life on the line. You know, we're with Patty Mann today, a Retd.

Seattle firefighter, her husband still Mickey is still working with Seattle fire. We know we could be injured, we know we could lose our life. You and I have been close.

I know you know several times for me and II just want people to understand that I think when I go around the state and I speak people can hear It in my voice. I think they can see it, and uh, that's that's my main message. If Bob Ferguson has never experienced what you and I and other cops have experienced life-and-death on the street.

Yeah, he speaks.

Blue, when I'm when I'm talking to you, when I'm wore a few feet apart and granted, I've known you before we've, we've conversed, it's authentic the energy I get from you and then your words are are measured, they're based and they have true, meaning, when I view Bob watch MF memo, given the stories that appear in his actions to me that as an individual doesn't have the authenticity that you convey. And to me, that is a red flag, because that is somebody that will say something that do the complete opposite.

Yeah, all for fake gain and uh, to me it, you know, it's his notoriety for pixel for for

Other power yeah, it's just I think it's calculated and you know the other thing that it goes along with that servanthood piece is integrity and to me, uh, honesty's a good thing. I always talk about this Patty's heard this. I mean, I don't know a 100 times the sheriff's office still has the same core values.

Leadership, integrity service and teamwork. Those were 1997 core values that I started in the sheriff's office, they're still there today and just trying to create back then, they were trying to take the sheriff's office apart. You know, in corporations and stuff?

And so I just said, look, we got to build an organization that's built on servanthood on integrity, we're going to do the right thing people need to trust us, and we're going to build that team, and we're going to be leaders. And I believe that's, you know, every law enforcement, we have the best law enforcement officers in the country right here in walking.

Question to say that again, governor.

We serve the best law enforcement officers in the countries right here in Washington State. I've worked with cops all across the nation, all great people, but I found that and I'm I know I'm probably a little biased, but I've had a lifetime of working with concert Washington State, not just as a cop. But as a member of Congress, and then, when I left Congress, I went to work in Central America on human trafficking, and then also here in the United States was working on rapid DNA.

So but the things that I want to do, uh, when I become governor to, really, you know, attract police officers back to their job number one. We have to support them. We have to and furry some laughs at this, we have to enforce the law.

I mean, that's like number one. It sounds almost II just can't believe I have to say that But less support our law enforcement officers to enforce the law and Bob thinks that yes, that can happen. Uh, if we offer $100 million grant, and we hire and cops will just come flocking.

Well, the reason why cops aren't flocking. It is because cops have been targeted by his policies and the policies trickled down from the governor's office deterring general all the way down.

That's the local.

And then I like the fact I watched some of your debate performance and congratulations. By the way, I thought you came across as really reputable, and you hung in there amongst you know, I think some some salacious interruptions and to me some salacious attacks, yeah, good job, but we've lost 700. Cops in 4 years.

We're still losing more than we're gaining this last contract that we settled. Yes, it helps. Let's kind of opened the door a bit for applicants at the end of the day, you look at the policies, it's the policies that handcuff cops op, you can be able to protect the public.

And I think if you look at the Attorney General Bob Ferguson and his targeting of police officers, particularly. In trials, there were for supposed criminal conduct. You know, cops don't want to come to the state, and then you mentioned rightly so that Washington State per capita has the lowest amount of law enforcement officers in the nation yep, and that is because of why.

Well I'll tell you, I think there are really 2 main reasons one, uh, cops are afraid of being sued and losing their homes and products accurate, so qualified immunity has got to stay intact and they tried to attack at this last session.

Of course, it is.

Uh, 2, they're afraid of being charged with a crime. And you know, they're in the process of arresting a crook and they become the crook? And so I think there's there's some adjustments to the law that we need to make to I clarify the law because to me, II know there there was slight changes in it from.

A reasonable person from the reasonable police officer trained police officers and their uh, perception of what is going on as a trained cop to reasonable person. That's that's not an equal.

No, not unusual measurement, that's not no.

And then and then the other piece is this whole idea of malice and intent so and initiative, 940 yeah, so I believe that if we were able to, uh strengthen those keep qualified immunity, strengthen the language on the on the other piece that you'll start to see cops come back and you know the other. Part of that is, in order to do that, you've got to elect people who support police officers to make sure these laws now look you and I both know. That I've worked with some cops that I, you know that are really didn't want to be on the sheriff's office and cops don't want bad cops or trading with them.

They want good police because they give us all a bad name, I've testified in trials that in fact, put. One as a precinct commander, the cop is still in prison. I fired police officers I've disciplined police officers as the sheriff.

And when we do wrong because we will do wrong, we're human beings. When people make mistakes, people do make mistakes in every profession, we hold them accountable, and I think that belongs to the cities and the counties not to the Attorney General's office. The Attorney General wants to have consent decree authority, that's purely weaponization weaponization, and it's also an attempt not only that.

He he has this office of investigation of forgetting independent investigation and office of independent investigation that he's now building up and initially they're going to take retired police officers and some police officers who

We're working for the Attorney General working for it.

For the Attorney General and the 800 lawyers and eventually, according to the law, they want civilians to be the investigators. So what happens is now you've got an Attorney General's office with consent decree with the ability to fire and hire police officers to investigate police officers charge police officers who in the right mind. Is going to come to Washington State and work as a police officer?

Be willing, it's already happening.

Aint gonna happen.

Yeah, it's big government on steroids right well, and it comes down to an experience I had the year there. I was, you know, sometimes I'd moonlight it as a patrol officer, just to help and I really love doing it, a backbone of policings, patrol. It's fantastic and speaking of policies and I was in the King County jail, not about a week ago.

And um and I had to arrest this guy who flow as the assaulted security guard at 3 shoplifted, but it shoot on fire and threw it at the the security guard is trying to do his job took money custody for that, and then he was won for arson earlier in the days we booked him on. Arson, and we worked him on the salt, long story, sure, get him in. I can, I'm sure you've heard the stories?

Maybe you haven't, maybe the viewers haven't, but suspects know how to play the game now. Of course, the policies are such that if you or in pre-book and you mentioned that you've been sexually assaulted, and then the past 5 days or even just to drugs, you name it, yeah, they get projected. So I experience that, but I guess the sad piece ISIS that these policies are so many, more than a aggressive and so anti law enforcement and almost anti public safety.

In my view, is that unfortunately, some of the some of the corruptions officers within the King County jail were celebrating. When my suspect was declined because he said he was sexually assaulted and to me, it was the most stunning thing I've seen, so I've seen it come full circle. Uh, we're supposed to be on the same page.

Yeah, but now the policies are so unbelievably transformed to the detriment of everybody now we're in fighting. And it's everybody I try to just watch off themselves. So I guess moving forward, how would you get governor's office to overhaul at least from the Attorney General's office?

Some of these local policies and county policies that I think generate from Seattle and then spread like wildfire, yeah.

Well, you, you do have candidate running, uh, for Attorney General, so that'd be the first move, right. It's somebody in there who understands that we're going to apply the law that are laws that are based on the Constitution, so they're constitutionally correct, rather than ideology, and that's where we are today, where Laws applied through an ideological lens and a left-leaning ideology, right? And instead of constitutional Lance, I, when I look at the criminal justice system, not.

And I've been out there on the street, I come from Aurora, all the way down, 3rd Avenue, all the way down to Soto and I've done that more than once with a couple of A couple of guys that you know and the the the Seattle cares group and some others and and I understand see how it cares probably does some good work. But but there it to me. It almost seems like you know, cities have built a buffer between cops and citizens with with civilians who are wearing jackets and they say.

Name the city cares they they. They're hands are tied too as far as helping people. They can't help unless the person asks for help or if somebody, if somebody crossed the street says Hey that you know that lady there, that said the stupor needs help you know for my days on Green River, I spent a lot of time on the street for 9 years, working with pimp's.

Prostitutes, drug dealers, and you You know the same thing that's going on today. Only we didn't have fentanyl, but I found it very rare, where someone on the street would say anything about anybody else on the street needing help or that they were doing this or doing that, uh, it was you know, keep my mouth shut and uh, cause I'm gonna protect my friends and and buddies, but cops have this You have to have this relationship between the people living in the community and police officers, you can't have a buffer, you can't separate them that relationship.

That's why the beat cops back in the day walking the streets, they're new thing too head.

And you're the shop owners, they knew everybody yep.

And and they took care of people and the people trusted them the same thing. Now fast forward to today, when you start looking at school resource officers, they play the same role, only in a younger crowd, right. You do away with sros, you do away with the week, but with Powell, the police activities league, which creates that relationship, one of the things I want to do.

Is when we can start to see an increase in hiring. I'd like to really reinstate the sro program with some state grants, so we can get cops in schools and build those relationships like that.

Great, that's a great message because in 20 years you know, state of public schools are demanding officers get off their campuses that is stunning. Yeah, right? And that ideology, you nailed it with first and it is ideology, it's emotion, isn't it, there's really no policies that could benefit the overall majority for Of the public, it's all now ideology.

Well, in one of the so, just uh, you know, AAA calculated decision I met with 500 whiznia. I got a sexy officers, yep, they had a conference, but then I've talked a few here and there after the conference and

Um

One of the things that happened has happened is that they took the burn jag grant and they've removed that money and they don't know where it went. But it's not going to the task force efforts anymore, so earn jag money is no longer gone 2 drug task force efforts here in Washington. So, what's happened is now, they've got to come back every state money, correct?

Federal money, federal money for going through

The state kind of managed

There's a state managing their budget.

Yeah, so they're put yeah, they're so now they're going to manage it right out to where they want it to go right exact, so so most or the efforts of burn jag goes to fighting drug gangs at drugs, gangs and cartels, pushing drugs and human trafficking. And so now. What has to happen?

Is these task force efforts have to go through every year? They'll go to the state, make a budget request, so yeah. You know, you can't make you can't make a plan.

A 12 month plan to get rid of a cartel, no exactly right, so you have to have AA consistent source of funds to continue that investigation, because your following leads from ABCD all taste that takes, there's a lot of

For people to do that work, yep.

So one of the first things I do is to take that burn Jake money and put it right back into some status force.

That's good to hear that. Um, and as we move forward, I was listening to your debate again, great job on it, but you, he burferguson attacked you on the homeless question in terms of where we put these people The king 5 didn't give you an opportunity in my if my memory they did not, they did not. And I, you know, I was going to give you an opportunity today, it's trying to provoke, I don't have the base that came 5 pushes down, but I would say, if you had an opportunity.

12 restate your counter to Ferguson's attack against you. How would you handle this crazy fentanyl crisis, which is emblematic of the crack after epidemic in the 90s? But now we've got to put people into treatment?

And it's gotta be attached to like a carrot and stick, you can't just give people free stuff that you said the the kids they're getting to people.

It's possible to do it or whatever they're calling it, yeah.

So how would you did? Where would we put people you have? We have to take them off the street, because this isn't compassion, no, we can't allow this to continue.

I was in Auburn last night driving around in auburns, a mess, yeah, downtown

Harvard federal ways. Yeah, I go to eat, go to wihatchi it's down market street and you'll see some of the same financial places. II stopped and visited a store owner there on market street and the first thing she said to me, in one hatchie, I'm afraid when I come to work.

That's crazy at well, that's that's a powerful state.

So I thank you for asking the question because um, when he made this the homeless statement? It was, you know, Dave Reichert thanks that using McNeil island or evergreen college, which isn't closing which it does, but I don't know why he thinks it's closing but there. Have been efforts to show those evergreen college.

I don't know where they're at in that right now, but there's even been legislation presented, which he's not going to share. But he wants me to make me wants to make me out to be this bizarre Oh off the wall. It's a wrangling nut.

Yes, that's exactly right? And so when he finished and I have been taking notes and I think people notice that when I'm taking notes, you know, I'm the whole table is shaken right with s***

Taking your microphone was shaking, I'm like, go go and then he didn't get a chance to respond. I'm like, oh, what wait.

Yeah, I went Hey, I, you know, I I'd like to respond to that because no, I'm told we gotta move on and I said, well, I'd like to respond to you. Yeah, so I didn't get my 45 seconds on that one, but she came back on me with a question. Which so I was prepared to respond to him?

And then I get a different question.

It's a housing question.

Was it, yeah, and then and then later kind of connected and then later I got cut off, I only got 15 seconds to respond instead of my 45 seconds, so I went I talked to her afterwards, and she said the producers were telling her she had to speed it up in her ear, which I, you know, II understand and and why did it happen to me twice? And He didn't get caught up. And that is my question, but here's the deal.

Oh you know, you, you mention vacant buildings or possibilities where people look, we don't have to build a facility and then my other response was going to be Yeah, so I got a better idea, let's not think about these vacant buildings as possibilities. We'll just let him live under the freeway, intense, or on the doorways of our businesses in downtown Seattle, because that's what he's been doing, right? So is that is that a better idea than

And it's only me

Neil island I would.

I would argue that it's been going on since he's been in office for the past 12 years, right? Because I saw the explosion here in Seattle, just okay, we got a serious problem. This is 2015, that's right around the time 2 or 3 years after he's the Attorney General.

Yeah, and so for me it's like This is, this is an existential threat.

Well, he's the he's the guy that was pushing the legislature to legalize drugs, including fentanyl, right? So I mean, he has to take responsibility, and he's not taking responsibility. So I thought would be, I don't care what building it is, you know they these are just thrown out is you know yet, every you've been in those sessions where you throw your ideas up on the wall and everybody stays up and right in town and then you go through them.

And then you erase. Them, but here's what happened. In Renton, so the red line there, at the at the north end of 167, when you come into renting, it's all boarded up.

We're paying $350000 a month lease for that, that empty vacant building, where they housed homeless people and didn't have any roles. To live there, and there was no services that were provided. So they trashed the place and now it's boarded up so I really like what union gospel does and and Salvation Army and I know that some will say, okay well, you mean, gospel is a Christian and that's Christian based and but um, you know, I don't, I don't care what whatever works right.

I mean, whatever's working salvation, army's doing an awesome job down there. Here's what they do, and this is what I'd like to replicate statewide. That they describe gentlemen will walk in.

I'll say I decide, I want help. They say, okay, but you gotta be clean and sober. Okay, he stays clean and clean and sober.

He goes to the 2nd floor they have 3 floors that they put their homeless men on, go to the 2nd floor and they begin to train, they do a little work therapy and work therapy, they they describe. As being very simple in the beginning and all that is, as you show up, you're clean and sober, you're in your bed. The light bulb comes on at 8 o'clock and you get up, that's right, right, and then you make sure dirts, yep, make your bed.

There's rules you make a bed, you mop the floor you clean yourself, you go to the shower you you. You brush your teeth, he cleaned a bathroom. You go to your therapy classes and and you try to search for work and they begin to help you do that.

3rd floor you, you have a job, you can go come and go, but you're clean and sober no using drugs and alcohol in the outside and coming back in like some places. Do your clean and sober period there's a there. They do you're in Jackson and drug testing, and then they finally move you into halfway house or reconnect you with your family and you're good to go.

That's a great plan. And it's basic to the degree that you can just articulate it well and I think it's doable. Yeah, and we gotta do something, because what Bob's been doing is clearly I'm gonna be an abysmal failure if he gets into office as the governor it's going to continue this game is going to continue.

I don't want to say game to be Flippin. This is a serious situation But I would say it is a game for them to then maneuver money, but these, I think policies that are in place that are really costing human lives. Yeah, and to me that's a tragedy, yeah, right?

Well, I think it's a sound plan because we cannot continue to have these people on the street and enable. Their dependency, not a system with their mental health issues without having standards for the decent other human people that are out there that are being impacted by this, and now it's an explosion across the West Coast, yep, and it's, I think it's just like you brought up on at you. That's that's an amazing place for it to show up.

I do think too that you have to have you. You know, you have to, there has to be the carrot in the stick. So some people are not going to realize they need help until they hit rock bottom.

You and I have milk, you'll see that sometimes I mean you deal with the same person out there in white center where I used to work and And and you'll, you'll take him and you'll, you'll talk them counseling, that's what cops do you know you try to help turn around, you know, maybe it's hours or days later back on the street, you're dealing with them again and then you do it, yeah. That third time is the time that person might wake up, that's it, and I say You know what I'm done with this, I need help and just keep me here and it's put me in a program, sometimes that 72 hour involuntary commitment.

This is the greatest thing that happens to me.

And you have to have law enforcement intervention. Yep, you have to, they have to remove their circle liberties to save their lives. Yeah, a measured approach.

Yeah, right, you know, a couple podcasts ago I had a gentleman Tom Wolf, who was here, and he a big advocate in San Francisco recovering addict. Lived on the street for a period of time and uh, you basically said this. San Francisco police officer saved his land because he held him accountable for violating some of the laws that he was breaking in San Francisco and that basically that intervention created a platform for him to change his life.

Now, he's an advocate or kind of like the policies that you're talking about, so, um, you know, in the campaign, I just noticed, sometimes I've seen several politicians talk in front of people and you can just kind of pick out certain people within the crowd that don't really um, just. Don't fit Is that they just, they don't seem like they're part there, but they're there to do some. Investigative reporting, you know, or like there's some kind of hit piece.

So have you experienced in at the course of your campaign? Have you experienced people with the fairest ways to try to catch you to slip up and say the wrong thing or or just spin whatever words you have and put it in some kind of social media

Absolutely. And I actually had it happen to me when I was in Congress, you know, so they'll put these they call them trackers, and they'll come to your events and act like they're a part of your eventum, and they'll have they may have more than 1 or 2 there. And so because you end up sort of knowing who they are about halfway through, and you can identify them, and so you're watching this guy and they'll send A A youngster over 1819-year-old Hey, I'm so excited to see sheriff Dave, you know, and he's got a recorder going on in his pocket.

And then he'll ask you a very good, very controversial question. And then you'll try and answer that in a in a way that you you know, it's balanced, but then they'll take A segment of of anything that you say and and twist it, so let's just say, for example, I would take this one, for example, so the latest ad is Dave reichertz says. He's going to reduce teachers wages while Dave Reichert never said that.

But they're saying that you did, yeah, there are

Or so, what Dave Reichert said in an interview was that we have some the state of Washington has some of the highest paid teachers in the country. And that's a fact, and I was talking to teachers here in Washington State, they say, yeah, in some districts we have, we're well paid so. It's like cops, it's not about the money, right?

It's about, like the teachers are telling me, look, I just want to teach what I've been taught to teach the kids. That's what I want to do. But I'm being told what to teach from the by the state, what's the same thing happening in just about every profession, right?

The state wants to control state. Um government, an Olympia wants to control what the teachers do, the teachers want choice, so the the question, then sort of evolved and my answer sort of evolved, and I said, so, you know, to really. Make sure our kids are well-educated.

We should examine where our money is being spent. So when I said that teachers are well paid and then we need to examine where our money is being spent in the educational system. They took that and they they attached it to Dave reichers, says, teachers, teachers should be Paint yeah.

Well, that's pure politics, which and I feel like you are experience it. Unfortunately, again, yeah, on the same level, but here now, statewide, with this governor's race and Bob Ferguson is a is a player in that field.

In my opinion, yep, it's his ad. It's a that's not his a**

Yeah, how can people? Uh, how come people find? Yeah, what's the best place for them to go

I just look for the old guy with the with a Gray hair, and I'm easy to spat.

You've got you know, you're you're, it's record for governor.com to right? What's how would people support your campaign? What is in India

Oh gosh, so to me, the most important thing you can do is vote and tell your friends to vote. So you know, II think of it this way, people died for all right? Some people came home and and severely injured and disabled for our right to vote, and we take it so lightly.

The turnout in the primary was barely 40% abysmal. Turn out on the west on the East Side of the cascades is normally hanging around 30% turnout. Would you see crazy?

Lucy, would you say that's apathy people saying, well, it's just going to happen anyways, so how do we reach those people?

I think, especially now, I think it's right now. We there's they they have to see there is an opera. We are really close, there's an opportunity I was the first elected sheriff in 30 years in King County, we're going to be the first elected Republican governor in Washington State in 40 years and 40 years we can do this.

And we are, we are seeing swing voters. Coming into our our website, sending emails on our staff telephone calls. They're reaching out saying, you know what I'm going to vote for Dave this time, I'm first time ever.

Yep, people I end, there's a movement, so the people that are already there, you know that understand that are conservatives that say I give up If they were to vote along with the swing voters, now that are coming on board, we can win this thing. And when I talk about people dying, look all we're not, we're not asking people to to do anything extraordinary here, they hit their ballad at home. All you have to do is pick up a pen and draw your life's not on the line.

You just fell in a little circle with a ball point pin and mail at him, that's it, somebody already died for you, just to you know, draw a little round circle on a piece of paper, you can do that, that's the way I mean I that's the way I put it last night. It was in an event and I think you know it's it's almost a guilt thing, right, sure. Yeah.

You almost have to make the people feel guilty, think about we all have relatives, uh, neighbors, friends who have served, whether it's in current wars or past history, and we know the sacrifices, let's honor that.

That's a great message. What happens if you don't get into the office? What do you think happens to this day

Oh I think you're gonna see he wants to say he's the change agent, you know, he's the change agent in this campaign, it aint going to happen, it's going to be the same policies that

Same failures.

The same failed ideological solutions applied to the same problems, and we're going to dig a deeper hole. Uh, you're gonna have more taxes, you're going to have more regulations, you're going to have less housing, and you're going to have more crime and more homelessness.

Well, I first started compelling, stay bent to fill out that ballot fill out that circle and put it in the mail. I don't know what is Dave Raker, I'm I admire you. I really appreciate you coming on and loose.

I'm leading the charge, and I think the continuation of service is compelling and humbling to me and I was a fellow servant to myself, that, uh, what you've done is and what you're continue to do for this community. And this the state I think, is incredible, so thank you so much for taking that theoros and continuing to lead.

Yeah, well, thank you, and thank all the cops and firefighters out there that are and those that are supporting cops and firefighters, and especially the spouses, significant others that are serving with us. That's a great message.

There you go, everybody Dave Reichert for governor.com, fill out those ballots we gotta save the state. And this is that election or I think we are full, are we at we rise and Dave record to me? Is that change agent, it gets us out of the same old policies that continue to plague our communities create lawlessness.

Take lives. Um, do your part? Fill out the ballot support Dave, and anybody that is pro public safety, that's go next time, hold the line with Mike stolen.

We'll see you let me see ya next.

Awesome. 